---------------------------------------------------
Comments

Your bare-np-phrase appears to still be putting in
unspec_q_rel, instead of _exist_q_rel, per Lab 5.
You should fix this so the MT goes more smoothly.

	In inspecting the parses from this utterance, it seems that ekki
	is attaching allowed to attach at both the VP and S level, thus
	creating the two parses. This is caused by the constraints on
	neg-verb-lex which are HEAD.MOD < [ LOCAL.CAT.HEAD verb ] >, and 
	Ss are HEAD verb, same as VPs. I haven't been able to get this
	constrained properly yet. Despite this problem, the following
	sentenced parses correctly, just slightly overgenerates:

If you want to force VP-level attachment, its MOD value should
say [ SUBJ cons ].  If you want to force S-level attachment,
the MOD value should say [ SUBJ < > ].

I'm surprised that this didn't work right out of the box (from
the config. script).  I'll have to look into it.

	To get the proper syntantic structure for aux verbs, I constrained
	the SUBJ of the aux to be coindexed with the first element on its
	ARG-ST, and also be coindexed witht the SUBJ of the VP that is
	its COMP.

You don't actually need to explicitly identify the SUBJ of the aux
with the SUBJ of its COMP -- the type
trans-first-arg-raising-lex-item-1 does that for you already.

	However, now the question can't be formed since it was contrained
	to have a verb that had gone through the standard lexical rules
	as its DTR. This problem hasn't been fixed yet.

You can fix this by making a supertype to the two sets of agreement
rules, and having that be what the question rule wants as its DTR.


		tad meida-ar ekki mig
		it hurt.3sg no me
		'it doesn't hurt me'

A surprising number of strings come back when I parse this one and
then generate (even discounting the doubled strings for VP and S
level attachment of ekki).  Are they all legit?

	Get ditransitive verbs and obj optional verbs working properly.
	This would entail cleaning up the transitive types to inherit
	and share constraints from a supertype.
	
	Get imperatives working properly. The lexical rule is applying, but
	still won't parse.

Please post questions about these to EPost.  (I think that I had
some suggestions for you on the latter in my last set of comments.)

	Fix determiners. There is the free determiner which isn't really
	working, and I might not be able to get it working for this class.
	Everything is getting "_unspec_q_rel" for the semantics. I need
	to add the proper PRED relation in the determiner lexical rules
	and probably leave BARE-NP underspecified for this.

Actually, no.  The "determiner" lex rules should only affect the
COG-ST on the noun's index.  The bare-np rule should put in _exist_q_rel
uniformly.

What's wrong with the free determiner?  It would be nice to get that
working.

	Adjective problems. Adjectives have a weak and strong form, and
	this depends on the def/indefiniteness of the noun. This may be
	too complicated to complete for this class, but I will attempt
	it in the next lab.

I agree that you might not get to these.  But, if you wanted to make
a start, I suggest using the MOD.FIRST.LOCAL.CONT.HOOK.INDEX.COG-ST
on the adjective to constrain which type of nouns it can go with (once
you've fixed your "determiner" lex rules).

Please post questions to EPost as you work on this.  Remember the 10 minute
rule :-)
