-----------------------------------------------------------------

Comments:



	+++ I have no idea whether the subject and object could be reordered.  
		Would child-ACC mother call-PAST be the same as 
		mother child-ACC call-PAST

You seem to state above that they can be.


	avan coora? unanaunnu
	he   rice   eat-PRES
	he is eating rive
	
	* unanaunnu avan coora? 
  	eat-PRES  he   rice   
  	is eating he rice
  	
  	+++ In this case, there is no case marking to indicate S and O
  		So, perhaps the words can't be reordered here without changing
  		meaning, but I'm not sure.

Is that just because of some accident of the morphology of these words?
I wouldn't be surprised either way, actually --- if the lack of overt
case led to more restrictive word order or if it didn't.

	1st and 2nd person plural includes an inclusive / exclusive
	modification as well,  indicating if the object is in the group, or
	outside it.

More specifically?  What do you mean by "object"?  What do you mean
by "the group"?

	Pronouns do not agree with verbs in tense, since tense marking
	is on the verbs.

Why would you expect pronouns to agree with verbs in tense?  (You might
expect tensed verbs to agree with their subjects, though.)


	There is no category for articles, but indefiniteness may be
	shown by oru, meaning one.
	Oru precedes the noun it is modifying.
	There are also demonstrative adjectives such as that, this, these, 
	those, etc.
	Nouns may also be modified by quantifiers or numerals.

Can 'oru' or the demonstrative adjectives appear between another
adjective and the head noun?  Is there any evidence that either 'oru'
or the demonstrative adjectives appear in the same slot in the
structure as the quantifiers?  Are the post-nominal quantifiers in
fact part of the NP consistuent, or are they rather associated with
the verb?`

	Case Marking Adpositions - 
	The grammar book I have talks about postpositional phrases, but these seem to be
	simple prepositional phrases.
	p. 120 Some examples it provides are:
		from the river to the sea
		with money
	The order seems to be noun postposition

Postpositions are ones that come after the noun.  So, I don't see
the contrast to "simple prepositional phrases".   On the other hand,
these examples don't really look like case-marking adpositions.

++ Dropping Verbs:
avan oru taiiccar aana?
he   a   teacher  be-PRES
he is a teacher

avan oru taiiccar
he   a   teacher
he is a teacher

thanuppundu
cold
it is cold

Any examples of dropped verbs which aren't copulas?

What about direct objects?  Can they be dropped as easily as subjects?

	According to R.E. Asher and T. C. Kumari, there is limited agreement
	between  adjectives and the nouns they modify, and it only occurs if
	the noun has CASE human (HUM). The adjective is then modified for
	GEN and NUM. However, the examples show modification of the
	adjectives for other cases, so I don't  understand that section of
	the grammar.  I'll look at other materials to try to find other
	examples.

CASE human is suspicious.  Adjectives that only agree with animate
nouns wouldn't be too surprising, but that's not a matter of case.

Do verbs show any agreement with their subjects?

If the pronouns are suppletive forms (the whole thing changes in different
cases, as opposed to being able to identify case endings) you should use
. in the glosses instead of -:

enikke
I.DAT

or better:

enikke
1sg.DAT

Your files are in an interestig encoding, which I can't view inside
emacs.  Do you know how to get emacs to render them?
