-------------------------------------------------------
Comments

 Word order: Zulu is an SVO language.  Per our discussion in class, I
 marked that Zulu does have determiners.  The demonstratives can appear
 either before or after the noun, but I picked `before the noun' for
 now.  I will have to fix this later.

So I'm guessing now that they aren't really determiners.  Can they
reorder with other adjectives, or are they always on the edge?  Where
do words like 'every', 'many', 'two' etc go?


 After I got the test suite loaded, I did my first test run. Nothing
 parsed, not even the sample sentences mentioned above.  At this point
 I discovered that I had consistently misspelled `child'.  It should be
 `umntwana', rather than `umuntwana'. I wasn't sure where in all the
 grammar files I would need to look to fix this. I thought maybe I
 could just change the lexicon file, but that doesn't fix the
 sentences. 

Fixing the lexicon file (specifically the STEM value of the offending
lexical item) should have done the trick.  What exactly did you try?

The grammar you turned in had a typo for the lexical item gijmani, which
causes an error to be printed out in the lkb top window when you load
the grammar.  Be sure to pay attention to that window and any errors
that may have printed (and possibly scrolled by), even when the grammar
appears to have loaded successfully.

 I think it will be easiest to not worry about the internal morphology
 of the nouns and their class prefixes. I will just create a feature
 for noun class and so label the nouns with their type.

As we discussed in class, it should be doable (and desirable) to
do the nouns, too.

 Something that shouldn't be too much work but will get me a long way
 is simply getting the bugs out of my test suite itself.  I'm not going
 to get very far if my test sentences are incorrect or mislabeled.  I
 corrected some of the errors I found as I worked, but didn't reload
 the corrected test suite.  I assume I just need to rerun the perl
 script and recopy over the item file.

Yes, that is the best way to do it, because that way you update both
versions of the test suite (the general, human-readable one and the
one that tsdb++ uses.

 In general, though, I feel pretty good about my test sentences.  I
 don't feel like they are overly complex.  While I was constructing it,
 I was frustrated at the complexity that had to be introduced to cover
 all the phenomena, but I can't escape that.  Perhaps I will feel
 differently once I get agreement working and can actually start
 thinking about what else I need to accomplish.

:)
