-----------------------------------------------------------------

Comments:

Re: Negative future, and zu/zo.  Is that the same spot that the other
auxiliaries turn up in?  In what sense does the auxiliary analysis
"explain" the lack of FV alternation in future tense?  An auxiliary
meaning 'come' is plausible as an historical source for a future
tense marker, the question is whether it is still synchornically an
auxiliary or not.

Also, what happens when you try to negate other tenses?

  If the verb stem (root + a) is one syllable, an affix (either prefix
 or suffix, seemingly at the speaker's preference) is added to make the
 verb two syllables. I am not sure how to implement this, and I'm not
 sure what to call the affix.  Do I just ignore it in the
 morpheme-by-morpheme gloss? If not, what do I call it?  I haven't used
 any examples with one-syllable verbs in my test suite, so I ignored
 this issue for now.  

This strikes me as a morphophonological fact, rather than a morphosyntactic
one.

 There doesn't seem to be anything that neatly corresponds to embedded
 interrogatives, but there are interrogative forms, and things that
 translate as relative clauses with question words, so I feel like
 there must be something.  I will keep looking for a good example.

The complements of translations of 'ask' and 'wonder' are good
places to start, I think.


 The equivalent of 'can' in Zulu is an affix on the verb.  I have used
 both transitive and intransitive sample sentences, to illustrate where
 the affix can and cannot occur.  I have included one example of the
 negative version ("can't").

This is too brief.  Where can it occur?  How does it relate to
the purported future tense auxiliary?

Coordination: It looks like Zulu has WITH (comitative) coordination, rather
than AND coordination.  The boy/dog example isn't a case of the subject
and object being coordinated, I don't think, but rather an intransitive
sentence "the boy plays" with an adjunct "with the dog".  The coordination
library doesn't yet do with coordination.

 Source: author
 Vetted: n
 Judgment: g
 Phenomena: m, neg
 Abantu bangedlale
 aba-ntu ba-nge-dlal-e
 C2-person SC2-can-play-FV
 'The people can't play'

Where is the negation in this?

