-------------------------------------------------------
Comments

 	For the Word Order choice I seleceted SVO. In the research
 I've done of Icelandic, I haven't found any information that
 explicitly states that it is an SVO language.  However, all the
 examples I've seen have been in SVO, and the information has stated
 that the verb always comes second. This information was not in a
 linguistic source, so I'm not sure if that means that Icelandic is a
 V2 language or not. So for the sake of simplicity I chose SVO since
 that is the data that I have seen, and I have constucted my test suite
 in SVO.

If you search "V2" and "Icelandic" in Google, some stuff turns
up that suggests that Icelandic is V2, but doesn't have the variant
where the verb goes to the end in subordinate clauses.  

	The Word Order page also had a selection for determiners as
 free words. This was a complex choice since Icelandic does have free
 determiners, but only in certain cases.  When the determiner is a free
 word, it appears before the noun (as well as the adjective). However,
 when the determiner appears as a affix (which is the most common
 case), it is suffixed to the noun. Since the customization only asked
 to specify if determiners can appear as free words, I chose the "yes"
 option with det-noun as the order. I will add the suffix case to the
 grammar later.

This was the right way to interpret those choices.

	For the Sentential Negation section, I chose the independent
 adverb option. This adverb appears directly following the verb. This
 is why I modifier option and selected that it modifies the verb adn
 appears to the right of the verb. In the corupus that I have looked at
 for Icelandic, however, shows this adverb appearing in many places. It
 could be that it is used for negations other that sentential negation,
 or is more free than indicated in the Icelandic grammar. Since my test
 suite only contains the negative adverb as a verb modifier, this
 choice should predict the correct grammatical judgement of the test
 suite sentences.

It does seem likely that the negative word is also used for
constituent negation.

	In choosing the words for the lexicon portion of the
 customization, I made some choices that were different than what the
 standard dicitonary translations defines as words. For the words "cat"
 and "dog", the dictionary translates them as "köttur" and "hundur". I
 chose to write them in as "kött" and "hund" I think that the nomative
 for form for these types of words is adding the "-ur" suffix since the
 accustive is just of the form "kött". I might end up changing this,
 but it seems like it would be easier to add a nominative suffix then
 to try to strip a word for accusative form.

Yes, that should be more straightforward.

	At the time of submitting this version, I am unable to run the
 test suite due to the stability of my linux machine.

The Treehouse machines all have lkb and [incr tsdb()].


