-----------------------------------------------------------------

Comments:

Somehow the encodings were different between the two files
you sent --- I could see the extended ascii characters in
the test suite, but not in the write up.

 Hausa has non-verbal sentence structures which aren’t covered by
 the SVO pattern.  These sentences use prepositions, a stabilizer, or
 an existential ‘there is/are’ word to indicate state.  Also,

Did you leave off the sentence after "Also"?

 I don’t think Hausa contains auxiliaries.  Tense, aspect and mood
 are represented in a pre-verbal complex that the reference grammar
 refers to as the PAC (person-aspect complex).  It is made up of a
 person pronoun connected to a tense/aspect/mood marker.  The author
 notes that it corresponds to INFL.  I’m having trouble deciding
 what to call the PAC.  Does this count as a particle? An inflectional
 marker?  Since the PAC must precede the verb, I added ungrammatical
 test cases where it is in different positions.

I think there are two ways to treat the PAC --- one is as an auxiliary
and the other is as an affix that the orthography just happens to
separate from the verb (some Bantu languages are apparently written
this way, in so-called "disjunctive" orthographies).  The way to tell
the difference would be if anything can ever intervene between the
PAC and the verb.  Or rather, if any open class thing can ever intervene
there, since closed class things (e.g., negative markers) might also
just be disjunctively written affixes.  If you go for the affix analysis,
you'll want to assume your morphophonological "preprocessor" nixes
the extraneous space between the PAC and the verb, or perhaps replaces
it with a -.

It's good to include the non-verbal sentences in your test set, but
you might not get to them this quarter.

 I'm assuming that two unmarked NPs next to each other is not a .

Not a what?

 Determiners can occur before or after the head of a NP.
 Demonstratives like that/those/this precede the noun.  A noun can have
 determiners preceding and following it, i.e. ‘wancàn
 gidâ-n’, that house-the, ‘that very house.’

I think this means that "the" isn't a determiner, but rather
an affix indicating definiteness.  You might want to analyze 
the demonstratives as determiners, or perhaps just as demonstrative
adjectives...

Getting the grammar to handle the ungrammaticality of examples
like this one:

 Source: author
 Vetted: f
 Judgement: u
 Phenomena: {Pronouns, Argument Optionality}
 ita takàn dafà àbinci.
 ita takàn daf-à àbinci.
 she 3fsg.HAB cook food
 'She cooks food'

Is going to be interesting.  I think we'll probably just
have to invent a feature, call it PRO and have verbs insist
on [PRO -] subjects.

 As mentioned before, a simple personal pronoun (with no modifiers)
 must be dropped if it is the subject.

This implies a transformational analisys.  A surface oriented statement
would be more like "Simple personal pronouns (with no modifiers) cannot 
appear as a subject.  Subjectless sentences must be used instead."  
What kind of modifiers "rescue" such sentences?

 Objects can't be dropped, as they are not in agreement with the
 verb.

It's not actually true that agreement is a prerequisite for argument
drop (crosslinguistically).  Is the statement above based on 
something from your reference grammar, or is it a conclusion that
you draw? (It seems to be incompatible with the next observations you make).

 I found it difficult to construct ungrammatical examples for
 sentential negation, since putting the negative markers in a different
 place just negates a different part of the sentence.

How about examples with just one ba (at the begining or the end)
or sentences with ba and the stabilizer in the wrong order?

 Since the pronouns change form for object, subject and genitive
 positions, does that mean that Hausa has a case system?  I know in
 English the case system doesn’t change the form of nouns, but it
 does change pronouns in accusative case.

Yes, that sounds like a case system at about the English level of
complexity.  I wouldn't bother with the genitives for this grammar,
but the subject v. object distinction is worth capturing as case.
(But, how do you know what the pronouns look like in subject position,
if they're always deleted.  What do the examples that have them overt
look like?)

 I’m very confused about how verbs are formed in Hausa.  There are 8
 verb grades, and I don’t have a clear understanding of what they
 indicate.  The grade tells something about the semantics of the verb,
 but it also seems to be just a convenient way of grouping together
 similar verb forms (or ending vowels).  I think I need to read the
 section on verbs again, but do you know any resources that might help?

Not specifically, but I would suggest talking with Kelly, since
she's working on another Bantu language.  You might also do a search
online or in the MLA bibliography on "Hausa verb" to see what
kind of scholarly works you can turn up.  Also, you can bring the
reference grammar by my office and we can look at it together :-)


Source: author
Vetted: s
Judgement: u
Phenomena: {Word Order}
mùtûm ginà yaa gidaa.
mùtûm gin-à yaa gidaa.
man built 3msg.COMP house 
'the man built a house.'

"Vetted: s" is supposed to mean that the example was taken
from some published source.  Examples that you construct are
"Vetted: f" until you run them past a native speaker, at which
point you can list the judgments associated with those examples
are "Vetted: t"

Source: author
Vetted: f
Judgement: u
Phenomena: {Word Order}
yarò yaa kooyàa manà lìssaafìi
yarò yaa kooy-àa manà lìssaafìi
boy 3msg.COMP teach us.obj math
'the boy taught us math'
Source: author
Vetted: f
Judgement: u
Phenomena: {Word Order}
yarò manà yaa kooyàa lìssaafìi
yarò manà yaa kooy-àa lìssaafìi
boy  1pl.obj 3msg.COMP teach math
'the boy taught us math'
Source: author
Vetted: f
Judgement: u
Phenomena: {Word Order}
yarò lìssaafìi manà yaa kooyàa 
yarò lìssaafìi manà yaa kooy-àa 
boy  math 1pl.obj 3msg.COMP teach
'the boy taught us math'

Isn't one of the above grammatical?

Formatting problem here:

Source: author
Vetted: f
Judgement: {Determiners}
tsoohuwaa wani taa zoo.
tsoohuwaa wani taa zoo.
old-woman some 3fsg.COMP came
'Some old woman came.'

