---------------------------------------------------
Comments

 Setential negation in Hausa is done by adding both a sentence-initial
 particle "bàa" and a sentence final particle "ba". Examples of this
 strategy are the sentences "bàa tàa-zoo ba" (NEG 3f.COMP came NEG, "It
 is not the case that she came") and "bàa yaaròo ya-kaamàa `bàraawòo
 ba" (NEG boy 3m.PRET catch thief NEG, "It is not the case that the boy
 caught a thief").  Verbal negation is a similar strategy, but the
 particles change form based on the tense and the neg particles only
 surround the VP, not including any attached adverbs.

Is there a difference in meaning between the VP level attachment of
negative particles and the S-level attachment?

 I implemented "can" by following the strategy of treating it like an
 auxiliary verb.  I made an aux-verb type inheriting from verb-lex and
 trans-first-arg-raising-lex-item-1.  I constrained the auxiliary to be
 TENSE subjunct, to allow it only to attach PAC prefixes in the
 subjunctive tense.  To get the infinitive verb form (no PAC prefix)
 following the auxiliary, I wrote an infinitive verb lex rule
 (null-PAC-verb-lex-rule) to constrain verbs to have a null PAC.  I
 made it FORM inf, and added MC - so that it couldn't participate as
 the main verb in regular sentences.

You probably don't want to use the feature TENSE for that.  If it
really is a semantic distinction, it should go in the value of MOOD.
If it's purely syntactic, you should create a HEAD feature FORM which
encodes the information you need.

 I implemented "can" by following the strategy of treating it like an
 auxiliary verb.  I made an aux-verb type inheriting from verb-lex and
 trans-first-arg-raising-lex-item-1.  I constrained the auxiliary to be
 TENSE subjunct, to allow it only to attach PAC prefixes in the
 subjunctive tense.  To get the infinitive verb form (no PAC prefix)
 following the auxiliary, I wrote an infinitive verb lex rule
 (null-PAC-verb-lex-rule) to constrain verbs to have a null PAC.  I
 made it FORM inf, and added MC - so that it couldn't participate as
 the main verb in regular sentences.

Rather than MC in this case, I'd suggest constraining the FORM of
the root condition to something incompatible with inf (e.g., a supertype
that subsumes imp and fin, say).

You're getting two parses for "ìn-iyà cî gìlâs", I think because
the indefinite rule isn't required.  Constraining common-noun-lex to be
[INFLECTED -] should have the effect of requiring it.

Your semantics for "ìn-iyà cî gìlâs" is also slightly broken: the ARG1
of _can_v_rel should qeq the LBL of _eat_v_rel.  By linking the COMPS
element of your auxiliary to the second ARG-ST element, you will fix
this.  (The matrix-provided supertype links from ARG-ST to semantics.)
This also explains some of your over-generation. With this link broken,
the person/number information for the subject isn't making it into
the semantics.

 I can get sentences with "can" to parse, but it overgenerates wildly
 (I get an *edge limit exhausted* warning).  Earlier, I was getting a
 long list of parses, and I noticed that I was generating sentences
 with a PAC in every possible person. I also noticed that my
 sentence-final negative marker is being stuck on the front of the
 auxiliary-verb sentence (see *"ba ìn-iyà cî gìlâs", NEG I can eat
 glass).  

This is because your auxiliary verb isn't constraining the HEAD value
of its subject.  Have it say [HEAD noun] in the subject, the negative
element won't show up there any more.

 And lastly, because my imperative rule is broken, it allows
 "iyà" to appear with a null PAC.

As part of your "spring cleaning", you should clean up the tdl in
your hausa.tdl file, both in terms of formatting and in terms of
repeated constraints.  For example, the following: 

1sg-subjunct-verb-lex-rule := infl-ltow-rule  &
	[SYNSEM.LOCAL [CAT[ HEAD.FORM base,VAL.SUBJ < [LOCAL.CONT.HOOK.INDEX.PNG [ PER first,
	NUM sg ] ]>],
	CONT.HOOk.INDEX.E [TENSE subjunct]],
	DTR.SYNSEM.LOCAL.CAT.HEAD verb].

Is much easier to read like this:

1sg-subjunct-verb-lex-rule := infl-ltow-rule  &
   [ SYNSEM.LOCAL [ CAT [ HEAD.FORM base,
                          VAL.SUBJ < [LOCAL.CONT.HOOK.INDEX.PNG [ PER first,
                                                                  NUM sg ] ]>],
	            CONT.HOOK.INDEX.E.TENSE subjunct ],
     DTR.SYNSEM.LOCAL.CAT.HEAD verb ].

More importantly, constraints that are shared among a class of
lexical rules (e.g., [HEAD verb] on the daughter, [FORM base] and
[TENSE (MOOD) subjunct] on the mother in the rule above) should be
stated on a supertype, rather than repeated over and over.

Your semantics for the negated sentences is broken.  _neg_r_rel
and _hurt_v_rel shouldn't have the same LBL value, nor the same
INDEX value.  That's actually a bug in the matrix (ternary-head-middle-phrase
shouldn't inherit from head-compositional, and I've fixed that
in the matrix patch for Lab 9).  Still, you should have noticed
and posted to EPost to find out why the mismatch between what you
were getting and the MRS given for comparison in the lab instructions.


  And lastly, because my imperative rule is broken, it allows
 "iyà" to appear with a null PAC.


It's not clear to me that this is broken ... if you don't want "iyà"
to go through the imperative rule, though, you can put a constraint
on the lexical entry (say on its FORM value) so that it can only
go through lexical rules with the appropriate FORM.

 The biggest problme with my grammar is that it's overgenerating. Since
 sentences in Hausa can be either interrogative or declarative
 (depending on intonation), the SF is prop-or-ques.  This allows the
 generation of sentences with question markers before or after.  I
 couldn't find any examples of negative questions in my reference
 grammar, so I have no idea whether it is grammatical to add a question
 marker to a negated sentence.  Also, since pronouns with a
 definiteness suffix are grammatical (though, I think they aren't
 common), this suffix also appears in generation.  When I parse "It
 can't hurt me" and then generate, I get both definiteness markers
 attaching to "me", since 1-person-singular is unspecified for gender.
 As I noted before, the sentence-final negative marker
 (R-neg-sentence-part) seems to mysteriously show up in generation.

Most of these don't sound like overgeneration to me --- they
sound like legitimate other strings to generate, given the same
input semantics. (The bug with R-neg-sentence-part I addressed
above.)

I wasn't getting your grammar to generate at all until I put
in some of the fixes suggested above to cut down on the generated
strings.  (Part of the reason you exhaust the edge limit so easily
is that you have lots of semantically empty elements: qparts, complementizers,
and now ba/baa ... make sure you don't have any superfluous ones of
these.)  Since your question particles and question complementizers
are homophonous with each other, perhaps it's possible to get by
with a single lexical entry for each?  (Then one of the head-comp rules
would need to say MC + to show that when it's on that end it has
to be the main clause...)

 My imperative rule is accepting any verb and leaving it without a PAC
 prefix.  This makes ungrammatical sentences parse, such as
 "zoo"("come", infinitive). Other features that I haven't gotten
 working yet. These are case-marking adposition (indirect object marker
 "wa"), null complementizers, and some semantic cases involving
 complementizers (I think you pointed one case out in your notes you
 sent along with my lab 7 grade).

What is the morphological effect of the imperative supposed to be?
You have it listed as a constant rule, and instantiated in lrules.tdl.
That suggests that it's not adding any suffixes.  If it is expecting
to take a particular inflected form as input, it should make its
daughter be of that form.  Note that most of your lex rules are ltow,
though, so I'm guessing that this rule would need to be ltol (i.e.,
wtow).

At any rate, your first priority for spring cleaning is to implement
the suggestions above.  This should lead to your semantics being corrected
and your generation being more in line. Please, please, please use the
10-minute rule and post to EPost frequently, so I can help.


